<strong>Battle of Neighborhoods - Best Location for an Italian Restaurant in Manhattan, New York</strong>


Introduction: Business Problem


New York city has many restaurants that cater to a large number of people with its wide variety of cuisines choices. These cuisines come from various ethnic groups who have come to the city from various parts of the world.


However, for any one trying to open a restaurant in the Manhattan, New York city, the choice on the location for

the restaurant can be daunting due to the abundance of restaurants around.

In this project, we are trying to find a location for an Italian Restaurant in Manhattan, New York city using

data science such that there is little or no competition around offering the same cuisine.

Data:


Based on the problem, we will need the following data for finding the best location for an Italian Restaurant in

New York



Neighborhood and Boroughs data including latitude and longitude data in order to segment them which 

can be found on 'https://geo.nyu.edu/catalog/nyu_2451_34572'.



Venue Data for each borough and neighborhood which can be retrieved through Foursquare.

With the above data, we will look at top 10 venues in each of the clusters formed by using K means algorithm

and then decide the location based results.

Map of Manhattan:


 


Here we have the map of Manhattan after clustering the venues using k means:


 



Methodology:


New York city has many restaurants that cater to a large number of people with its wide variety of cuisines choices. These cuisines come from various ethnic groups who have come to the city from various parts of the world.



In this project, we will find the top 10 venues in the neighborhoods of Manhattan and cluster

them using K means algorithm in order to find the top 10 venues of each neighborhood. Based

upon this, we will choose the best location for an Italian Restaurant.







Result and Discussion:



We now have the information about the top 10 venues in each neighborhood of Manhattan as 

we have now clustered the neighborhood data using K means.

The first cluster has '8' neighborhoods and there is no Italian restaurant among the top venues

 of the neighborhood.





The second cluster has '9' neighborhoods and there are some neighborhoods with Italian restaurant

 in the top 10 venues.





The third cluster has '9' neighborhoods and there are some no neighborhoods with an Italian

 restaurants in the top 10 venues.





The fourth cluster has '13' neighborhoods and the neighborhoods in the cluster has quite a number

of Italian restaurants among its top venues.





The fifth cluster has only '1' neighborhood and the neighborhood does not have any Italian

 restaurants among its top venues.








Conclusion:


In this project, we are looking for a good location for a restaurant in Manhattan. As there are 

hundreds of restaurants in Manhattan, it is very hard to pinpoint a particular location.





In this project, we are looking at the top 10 venues in the location to choose a place for a Italian

Restaurant. The fourth cluster has quite a number of Italian restaurants as the top venues, hence,

the neighborhoods in the cluster may not be the best locations for an Italian Restaurant as there

is too much competition.





The first cluster also has some neighborhoods where Italian restaurants are among the top venues.

 The ideal location for an Italian Restaurants would be the remaining neighborhoods in the

clusters 2, 3 and 5.





However, Final decision must be taken by stake holders based on other factors such as their

investment, value of real estate, proximity to locations such as movie theaters or parks,

socio-economic conditions of the people in the neighborhood and their preferences and so on.


















